This archive includes all processed data that have been generated and used in the database paper 'GTDrift: A resource for exploring the interplay between genetic drift, genomic and transcriptomic characteristics in eukaryotes', as well as the scripts used to analyze the data and to generate the figures.

Developed by Florian Bénitière, Anamaria Necsulea and Laurent Duret. Université de Lyon, Université Lyon 1, CNRS, Laboratoire de Biométrie et Biologie Évolutive UMR 5558, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France.

### Directories content

-   The folder 'figure' contains the necessary materials to produce the figures of the manuscript:

    -   Intermediate pannels generated by R scripts to produce figures are stored in the directory 'pannels'.

    -   Stable images used in pannels are stored in 'images_library'.

    -   Directories labeled with the extension '\_generator' contain R scripts used to produce figures.

    -   The remaining directories are where the figures are stored.

-   The 'data' directory contains processed data in tab-separated text format, which is used for generating figures and conducting analyses.

    -   The directory labeled 'dnds_phylo' houses curated data pertaining to the molecular evolutionary rate, specifically, the dN/dS ratio. This ratio signifies the rate at which non-synonymous substitutions occur in comparison to synonymous substitutions. It encompasses four distinct methods for estimation, each associated with specific taxonomic categories: 'Embryophyta', 'Metazoa', 'Eukaryota'. In an effort to encompass a broader spectrum of our species, a fourth methodology was employed named 'per clade', involving the division of clades within the metazoa taxon (see paper for methods).
      
      - The 'readme' file contains characteristics about the analysis.
      
      - A 'species_list.tab' table contains the set of species on which was done the analysis.
    
      - In the subdirectories 'phylogeny' are stored the outputs of the pipeline, the alignment used to inferred the phylogeny, the RAxML-NG log and the phylogenetic trees.
      
      - In the subdirectories 'dnds' are stored the output of the pipeline, the alignment on which was estimated the dN/dS.

    -   The directory labeled 'dnds_phylo'
    
    
    
### 

Some packages that you may encounter in these R scripts should be install: - stringr - kableExtra - cowplot - ggplot2 - imager - RColorBrewer ...

### 

The script 'values_in_text_paper_generator.R' retrieves the values found in the main text of the paper from the data.
